pages/ecosystem/index.md, before:

---
title:
  en: OpenList Ecosystem
  zh-CN: OpenList 生态项目
categories:
  - ecosystem
top: 1000
---

:::en
This page shows the OpenList ecosystem, including official projects and third-party projects
:::

:::zh-CN
本页面展示了OpenList的生态项目，包括官方项目和第三方项目
:::

## Official Projects { lang="en" }

## 官方项目 { lang="zh-CN" }

### [OpenList Docs ↗](./ecosystem/official_docs)

:::en
Documentation based on Valaxy, supporting multiple styles and real-time builds from the GitHub repository.
:::
:::zh-CN
基于Valaxy的文档，支持多种样式，基于GitHub仓库实时构建。
:::

---

### [OpenList Desktop ↗](./ecosystem/official_desktop)

:::en
A cross-platform GUI management interface integrating OpenList and rclone, offering graphical configuration, monitoring, and service management features.
:::
:::zh-CN
整合了OpenList和rclone的跨平台GUI管理界面，提供图形化配置界面、监控和服务管理等实用功能。
:::

---

### [OpenList Mobile ↗](./ecosystem/official_mobile)

:::en
A mobile file server application based on OpenList, built with Flutter framework. Turn your phone into a file server.
:::
:::zh-CN
基于OpenList的移动端文件服务器应用，使用Flutter框架开发。将您的手机变成文件服务器。
:::

---

### [OpenList APIPages ↗](./ecosystem/official_APIpage)

:::en
An open-source implementation of the online API functionality in OpenList, deployable on various servers, providing stable and privacy-protected API authentication services for cloud storage users.
:::
:::zh-CN
OpenList中在线API功能的开源实现，可灵活部署至多种服务器，可以为网盘用户提供稳定且有双向隐私保障的API鉴权服务。
:::

---

### [OpenList Proxy ↗](./ecosystem/official_proxy)

:::en
OpenList traffic proxy program, which can use another server to proxy OpenList traffic.
:::
:::zh-CN
OpenList流量代理程序，可以利用另一台服务器代理OpenList的流量
:::

## Third-Party Open Source Projects { lang="en" }

## 第三方开源项目 { lang="zh-CN" }

::: en
::: tip
Third-party open source projects are based on community open-source security. The following projects are not affiliated with OpenListTeam. Please evaluate the associated risks before deploying them to a production environment.
:::

::: zh-CN
::: tip
以下第三方开源项目均由社区开发并保持开源，与 OpenListTeam 无直接关联。在部署到生产环境前，请自行评估相关风险。
:::

### [sbwml/luci-app-openlist ↗](https://github.com/sbwml/luci-app-openlist)

::: en
Provides LuCI support for OpenList, suitable for OpenWRT-based router systems.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
为 OpenList 提供 LuCI 支持，适用于基于 OpenWRT 的路由器系统。

自由开源软件，MIT 协议
:::

---

### [giturass/openlist_termux ↗](https://github.com/giturass/openlist_termux/)

::: en
OpenList management script for Termux, used for convenient installation, updating, and management of OpenList in the Android Termux environment.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
Termux 下的 OpenList 管理脚本，用于在 Android Termux 环境中便捷安装、更新和管理 OpenList.

自由开源软件，MIT协议
:::

---

### [ypq123456789/openlist-manger ↗](https://github.com/ypq123456789/openlist-manger)

::: en
A cross-platform interactive Shell script for managing OpenList, supporting Linux, macOS, Windows (WSL), and Android Termux.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
一个用于管理 OpenList 的跨平台交互式 Shell 脚本，支持 Linux、macOS、Windows (WSL) 和 Android Termux。

自由开源软件，MIT协议
:::

---

### [Alien-Et/OpenList-Magisk ↗](https://github.com/Alien-Et/OpenList-Magisk)

::: en
The OpenList Magisk module integrates the OpenList file server into the Android system, running in a systemized manner through Magisk, supporting ARM and ARM64 architectures.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
OpenList Magisk 模块将 OpenList 文件服务器集成到 Android 系统中，通过 Magisk 以系统化方式运行，支持 ARM 和 ARM64 架构。

自由开源软件，MIT 协议
:::

---

### [qianye216/OpenList-Desktop ↗](https://github.com/qianye216/OpenList-Desktop)

::: en
OpenList Desktop is a cross-platform desktop client designed for OpenList (Alist) and Rclone. It provides a modern and user-friendly graphical interface that helps you easily manage Alist services and Rclone cloud storage mounts without needing to memorize and input tedious command-line instructions.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPLv3 License.
:::

::: zh-CN
OpenList Desktop 是一个为 OpenList (Alist) 和 Rclone 设计的跨平台桌面客户端。它提供了一个现代化且用户友好的图形界面，帮助您轻松管理 Alist 服务和 Rclone 云盘挂载，无需记忆和输入繁琐的命令行指令。

自由开源软件，GPLv3 协议
:::

---

### [LeoHaoVIP/AListLiteAndroid ↗](https://github.com/LeoHaoVIP/AListLiteAndroid)

::: en
AListLite is an Android application that supports running OpenList services. Compared to the tutorial described in BV1ex4y157xJ, users can use OpenList services on Android devices (phones/TVs) without needing to install Termux.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the AGPLv3 License.
:::

::: zh-CN
AListLite 是一款支持运行 OpenList 服务的 Android 应用，相对于教程 BV1ex4y157xJ 中的描述，用户无需借助安装 Termux 即可实现在 Android 设备（手机/电视）上使用 OpenList 服务。

自由开源软件，AGPLv3 协议
:::

---

### [outlook84/mpv-handler-openlist ↗](https://github.com/outlook84/mpv-handler-openlist)

::: en
This is a URL protocol handler (mpv://) designed for mpv or mpv.net media players on Windows platform. This tool is used to invoke mpv or mpv.net players from OpenList web pages to open video links.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPLv2 License.
:::

::: zh-CN
这是一个为 Windows 平台上的 mpv 或 mpv.net 媒体播放器设计的 URL 协议注册器 (mpv://)。该工具用于在 OpenList Web 网页上调用 mpv 或 mpv.net 播放器来打开视频链接。

自由开源软件，GPLv2 协议
:::

### [huancun/Openlist-EX-container ↗](https://github.com/huancun/Openlist-EX-container)

::: en
This project is an improved version based on Alist-EX-container.
Integrates Openlist, Aria2, qBittorrent, Caddy reverse proxy, supports multi-arch one-click deployment, navigation page and multiple web panels, perfect for offline download and resource management.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPLv3 license.
:::

::: zh-CN
该项目基于 Alist-EX-container 改进。
集成 Openlist、Aria2、qBittorrent、Caddy 反向代理，支持多架构一键部署，带导航页和多种 Web 面板，适合离线下载和资源管理。

自由开源软件，GPLv3 协议
:::

---

### [907739769/OpenList-strm-RuoYi ↗](https://github.com/907739769/OpenList-strm-RuoYi/)

::: en
An improved version of OpenList Strm based on RuoYi framework.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
基于RuoYi框架升级的OpenList Strm 应用

自由开源软件，MIT协议
:::

## Third-Party Proprietary Software { lang="en" }

## 其他第三方项目 { lang="zh-CN" }

::: en
::: danger
The following lists several other third-party projects derived from OpenList that do not fall into the above categories.

Any actions of these software/projects (including references to OpenList in their names, functionality design, content, or promotional methods) do not represent the stance of the OpenList project. The functionality, consequences of use, and related legal responsibilities are entirely borne by their respective developers or publishers, and the OpenList project assumes no responsibility.
:::

::: zh-CN
::: danger
以下列出若干基于 OpenList 衍生的其他不符合上述分类的的第三方项目。

以下软件/项目的任何行为（包括其名称中对 OpenList 的引用、功能设计、内容及宣传方式）均**不代表** OpenList 项目的立场。软件功能、使用后果及相关法律责任完全由其开发者或发布方承担，OpenList 项目概不负责。
:::

### [MY QNAP's OpenList ↗](https://www.myqnap.org/product/openlist/)

::: en
::: danger
The third-party closed-source QPKG version of OpenList.

[Archived on 2025-7-13](https://web.archive.org/web/20250713005135/https://www.myqnap.org/product/openlist/)

Proprietary software, paid license.

Note: The source code is not open, violating the AGPLv3 license and the OpenList logo's CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license.
:::

::: zh-CN
::: danger
OpenList的第三方闭源qpkg版本。

[存档于2025-7-13](https://web.archive.org/web/20250713005135/https://www.myqnap.org/product/openlist/)

专有软件，付费授权

注意：因没有开放源码，违反AGPLv3许可证、违反OpenList LOGO的CC BY-NC-SA 4.0许可。
:::

Commit message:

docs(ecosystem): fix format & add submit tip

pages/ecosystem/index.md, after:

---
title:
  en: OpenList Ecosystem
  zh-CN: OpenList 生态项目
categories:
  - ecosystem
top: 1000
---

:::en
This page shows the OpenList ecosystem, including official projects and third-party projects
:::

:::zh-CN
本页面展示了OpenList的生态项目，包括官方项目和第三方项目
:::

## Official Projects { lang="en" }

## 官方项目 { lang="zh-CN" }

### [OpenList Docs ↗](./ecosystem/official_docs)

:::en
Documentation based on Valaxy, supporting multiple styles and real-time builds from the GitHub repository.
:::
:::zh-CN
基于Valaxy的文档，支持多种样式，基于GitHub仓库实时构建。
:::

---

### [OpenList Desktop ↗](./ecosystem/official_desktop)

:::en
A cross-platform GUI management interface integrating OpenList and rclone, offering graphical configuration, monitoring, and service management features.
:::
:::zh-CN
整合了OpenList和rclone的跨平台GUI管理界面，提供图形化配置界面、监控和服务管理等实用功能。
:::

---

### [OpenList Mobile ↗](./ecosystem/official_mobile)

:::en
A mobile file server application based on OpenList, built with Flutter framework. Turn your phone into a file server.
:::
:::zh-CN
基于OpenList的移动端文件服务器应用，使用Flutter框架开发。将您的手机变成文件服务器。
:::

---

### [OpenList APIPages ↗](./ecosystem/official_APIpage)

:::en
An open-source implementation of the online API functionality in OpenList, deployable on various servers, providing stable and privacy-protected API authentication services for cloud storage users.
:::
:::zh-CN
OpenList中在线API功能的开源实现，可灵活部署至多种服务器，可以为网盘用户提供稳定且有双向隐私保障的API鉴权服务。
:::

---

### [OpenList Proxy ↗](./ecosystem/official_proxy)

:::en
OpenList traffic proxy program, which can use another server to proxy OpenList traffic.
:::
:::zh-CN
OpenList流量代理程序，可以利用另一台服务器代理OpenList的流量
:::

## Third-Party Open Source Projects { lang="en" }

## 第三方开源项目 { lang="zh-CN" }

::: en
::: tip
Third-party open source projects are based on community open-source security. The following projects are not affiliated with OpenListTeam. Please evaluate the associated risks before deploying them to a production environment.

If you have a new project that is not listed here, you can submit it through [Issues](https://github.com/OpenListTeam/OpenList-Docs/issues) or [Pull Request](https://github.com/OpenListTeam/OpenList-Docs/pulls).
:::

::: zh-CN
::: tip
以下第三方开源项目均由社区开发并保持开源，与 OpenListTeam 无直接关联。在部署到生产环境前，请自行评估相关风险。

如果您有新的项目没有在此列出，可以通过 [Issues](https://github.com/OpenListTeam/OpenList-Docs/issues) 或 [Pull Request](https://github.com/OpenListTeam/OpenList-Docs/pulls) 提交。
:::

### [sbwml/luci-app-openlist ↗](https://github.com/sbwml/luci-app-openlist)

::: en
Provides LuCI support for OpenList, suitable for OpenWRT-based router systems.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
为 OpenList 提供 LuCI 支持，适用于基于 OpenWRT 的路由器系统。

自由开源软件，MIT 协议
:::

---

### [giturass/openlist_termux ↗](https://github.com/giturass/openlist_termux/)

::: en
OpenList management script for Termux, used for convenient installation, updating, and management of OpenList in the Android Termux environment.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
Termux 下的 OpenList 管理脚本，用于在 Android Termux 环境中便捷安装、更新和管理 OpenList.

自由开源软件，MIT协议
:::

---

### [ypq123456789/openlist-manger ↗](https://github.com/ypq123456789/openlist-manger)

::: en
A cross-platform interactive Shell script for managing OpenList, supporting Linux, macOS, Windows (WSL), and Android Termux.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
一个用于管理 OpenList 的跨平台交互式 Shell 脚本，支持 Linux、macOS、Windows (WSL) 和 Android Termux。

自由开源软件，MIT协议
:::

---

### [Alien-Et/OpenList-Magisk ↗](https://github.com/Alien-Et/OpenList-Magisk)

::: en
The OpenList Magisk module integrates the OpenList file server into the Android system, running in a systemized manner through Magisk, supporting ARM and ARM64 architectures.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
OpenList Magisk 模块将 OpenList 文件服务器集成到 Android 系统中，通过 Magisk 以系统化方式运行，支持 ARM 和 ARM64 架构。

自由开源软件，MIT 协议
:::

---

### [qianye216/OpenList-Desktop ↗](https://github.com/qianye216/OpenList-Desktop)

::: en
OpenList Desktop is a cross-platform desktop client designed for OpenList (Alist) and Rclone. It provides a modern and user-friendly graphical interface that helps you easily manage Alist services and Rclone cloud storage mounts without needing to memorize and input tedious command-line instructions.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPLv3 License.
:::

::: zh-CN
OpenList Desktop 是一个为 OpenList (Alist) 和 Rclone 设计的跨平台桌面客户端。它提供了一个现代化且用户友好的图形界面，帮助您轻松管理 Alist 服务和 Rclone 云盘挂载，无需记忆和输入繁琐的命令行指令。

自由开源软件，GPLv3 协议
:::

---

### [LeoHaoVIP/AListLiteAndroid ↗](https://github.com/LeoHaoVIP/AListLiteAndroid)

::: en
AListLite is an Android application that supports running OpenList services. Compared to the tutorial described in BV1ex4y157xJ, users can use OpenList services on Android devices (phones/TVs) without needing to install Termux.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the AGPLv3 License.
:::

::: zh-CN
AListLite 是一款支持运行 OpenList 服务的 Android 应用，相对于教程 BV1ex4y157xJ 中的描述，用户无需借助安装 Termux 即可实现在 Android 设备（手机/电视）上使用 OpenList 服务。

自由开源软件，AGPLv3 协议
:::

---

### [outlook84/mpv-handler-openlist ↗](https://github.com/outlook84/mpv-handler-openlist)

::: en
This is a URL protocol handler (mpv://) designed for mpv or mpv.net media players on Windows platform. This tool is used to invoke mpv or mpv.net players from OpenList web pages to open video links.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPLv2 License.
:::

::: zh-CN
这是一个为 Windows 平台上的 mpv 或 mpv.net 媒体播放器设计的 URL 协议注册器 (mpv://)。该工具用于在 OpenList Web 网页上调用 mpv 或 mpv.net 播放器来打开视频链接。

自由开源软件，GPLv2 协议
:::

---

### [huancun/Openlist-EX-container ↗](https://github.com/huancun/Openlist-EX-container)

::: en
This project is an improved version based on Alist-EX-container.
Integrates Openlist, Aria2, qBittorrent, Caddy reverse proxy, supports multi-arch one-click deployment, navigation page and multiple web panels, perfect for offline download and resource management.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPLv3 license.
:::

::: zh-CN
该项目基于 Alist-EX-container 改进。
集成 Openlist、Aria2、qBittorrent、Caddy 反向代理，支持多架构一键部署，带导航页和多种 Web 面板，适合离线下载和资源管理。

自由开源软件，GPLv3 协议
:::

---

### [907739769/OpenList-strm-RuoYi ↗](https://github.com/907739769/OpenList-strm-RuoYi/)

::: en
An improved version of OpenList Strm based on RuoYi framework.

Free and Open Source Software licensed under the MIT License.
:::

::: zh-CN
基于RuoYi框架升级的OpenList Strm 应用

自由开源软件，MIT协议
:::

## Third-Party Proprietary Software { lang="en" }

## 其他第三方项目 { lang="zh-CN" }

::: en
::: danger
The following lists several other third-party projects derived from OpenList that do not fall into the above categories.

Any actions of these software/projects (including references to OpenList in their names, functionality design, content, or promotional methods) do not represent the stance of the OpenList project. The functionality, consequences of use, and related legal responsibilities are entirely borne by their respective developers or publishers, and the OpenList project assumes no responsibility.
:::

::: zh-CN
::: danger
以下列出若干基于 OpenList 衍生的其他不符合上述分类的的第三方项目。

以下软件/项目的任何行为（包括其名称中对 OpenList 的引用、功能设计、内容及宣传方式）均**不代表** OpenList 项目的立场。软件功能、使用后果及相关法律责任完全由其开发者或发布方承担，OpenList 项目概不负责。
:::

### [MY QNAP's OpenList ↗](https://www.myqnap.org/product/openlist/)

::: en
::: danger
The third-party closed-source QPKG version of OpenList.

[Archived on 2025-7-13](https://web.archive.org/web/20250713005135/https://www.myqnap.org/product/openlist/)

Proprietary software, paid license.

Note: The source code is not open, violating the AGPLv3 license and the OpenList logo's CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license.
:::

::: zh-CN
::: danger
OpenList的第三方闭源qpkg版本。

[存档于2025-7-13](https://web.archive.org/web/20250713005135/https://www.myqnap.org/product/openlist/)

专有软件，付费授权

注意：因没有开放源码，违反AGPLv3许可证、违反OpenList LOGO的CC BY-NC-SA 4.0许可。
:::
